white coat; he gathers its blood in a sacred dish and
pours it upon a shepherd kneeling at the altar. He then
addresses a solemn hymn to the Sun, and the entire as-
semblage responds to his sacred words. Boars, and ewes
are then immolated and their entrails, roasted at once,
are distributed to those who are present.

The Spaniards gazed upon these strange ceremonies
with wonder; they trembled with {ear at the sight of the
hideous ravages of a disease that was unknown to them.
Their leader remained silent for a long time as if in a
dream, and then cried out: “Ah, bere it is: doubssess,
this is the scourge with which the bird of Apollo,
threatened us, O eternal gods, pity, pity us!” Then ad-
dressing the King of the natives (for already the two
peoples had learned to understand one another): “What
are” said he, “the religious rites? Who are those un-
fortunates gathered together in this place? Who is the
shepherd upon whom your sacrificet has spread the blood
of the victim? ”

“Valiant stranger''‚ answered the King, “thou hast
witnessed our annual sacrifice in honor of the Sun. lts
origin is very ancient. And since thou hast asked to
'know it, lwill satisfy thy wish: 1 will tell thee what
series of misfortunes has struck us, and how this scourge
which now desolates us was born in our midst.'’

“An issue off Atlas, of Atlas our father, whose name
no doubt is not unknown to thee, our nation lived for a
long time happily and cherished of the sky, as long as it
honored the gods and remained faithful to their worship.

Pane Fiffty-iwo

